Barista Training


Barista

A barista is a person who works in a cafe or a coffee shop near an espresso machine and has all expert knowledge about coffee items. They have some duties, skills, and responsibilities.

Some of the skills of a barista are
1. Great communication skills.
2. Giving the best answers to the customers about the origin and flavor of the coffee.
3. How to use and clean coffee bean grinder and espresso machine.
4. How to add foam and textures to the milk.
5. Adding artistic designs to the top of the latte.
6. Knowledge of sourcing, roasting, extraction, milk temperatures, and different brewing methods.
7. How to prepare specialty coffee and tea drinks.

Duties and responsibilities of barista
1. Preparing and serving hot and cold drinks such as coffee, tea, and specialty beverage.
2. Cleaning and sanitizing work areas, utensils, and equipment.
3. Cleaning service and seating areas.
4. Describing menu items and suggesting products to customers.
5. Serving customers and taking their orders.
6. Ordering, receiving, and distributing stock supplies.
7. Receiving and processing customers' payments.

Parts of espresso machine
1. On/Off switch
2. Knob lever
3. Cup warmer/warming tray 
4.	Steamer
	a) Nozzle
	b) Wand
5. Group head
6. Hot water tape 
7. Dripping tray 
8. Water in/water out a pipe
9. Temperature /pressure gauge

Instruments used by barista
1. Grinder
2. Portafilter
	a) Single tap portafilter
	b) Double tap portafilter
3. Tamper
4. Pitcher
5. Tamping mat

Equipment
1. Peg measurer/Jigger
2. Bar spoon
3. Strainer
	a) Fine strainer
	b) Hawthrone 
4. Shaker
5. Muddler
6. Tong 
	a) Suger tong 
	b) Ice tong 
7. Peeler
8. Grater
9. Scoop

Glass names
1. Shot glass
2. Americano 
3. Cappuccino/Latte cup
4. Doppio glass
5. Irish mug
6. Hurricane/colada
7. Hiball/collin
8. Weizen
9. Lungo glass
10. Pilsner glass
11. Martini glass

Types of coffee beans
There are more than 100 coffee species. The four main types of coffee beans are as follows
1) Arabica 
2) Robusta
3) Excelsa
4) Liberica

espresso machine
An espresso machine is a machine that brews coffee by forcing pressurized water near boiling point through a puck of a ground coffee and a filter to produce a thick concentrated coffee called espresso. The first espresso machine was built by Luigi Bezzera at the dawn of the 1900s. There are three types of espresso machines they are
1. Manual espresso machine
2. Semi-automatic espresso machine 
3. Fully-automatic espresso machine

After this, we are ready to brew espresso.
 
Espresso is a fully-flavored concentrated form of coffee that is obtained by forcing pressurized hot water through very finely ground coffee beans by using an espresso machine. There are three layers in espresso. They are
1. Crema
2. Body
3. Heart

World history of coffee
The history of coffee is rich with legend, intrigue, smuggling incidents, and romantic stories. Today's coffee has grown to be one of the world's most traded commodities and favorite beverages.

CIRCA A.D. 800-900
Kaldi, the goat herder legend, an Ethiopian noticed that his goat became quite energetic after eating the berries of certain shrubs. Intrigued, he tried one himself and found that it made him more active and lively as well.

A monk who came across Kaldi, and his dancing goats grew curious and picked some barries from the same shrub. He crushed them into a fine powder and added boiling water (this may have been the first ever cup of coffee). Upon testing the concoction and realizing that it releases energy, he rushed back to his monastery to share his findings. The monks held the discovery as a gift from the lord. From now on, they were able to stay awake during their long hours of prayers.

Coffee history in Nepal
The history of Nepal's coffee goes back to 1938, when a hermit named Hira Giri, bought coffee from Myanmar. He planted those coffee seeds for the first time in Nepal in the place called Aapchaur in Gulmi. Later on, King Birendra Shah declared Gulmi the coffee region.

In the world of coffee, elevation is a mark of quality.
High elevation
High-quality, Arabica beans thrive at the highest elevations. Coffee trees can grow anywhere from 3000-6000 feet (900-1800m). At these high altitudes, a special microclimate nurtures the beans with an ideal amount of temperature, sunlight, and rainfall. Also, cooler evenings slow down the maturation of coffee cherries, allowing the flavors to develop more fully.

low elevation
Robusta beans typically grow at low elevations. They grow bigger and faster than Arabica beans though less dense. And the trees are easier to cultivate and more resistant to disease. Almost half the coffee-growing world cultivates Robusta because it's more accessible. Though the flavor of this coffee is typically inferior.

How does the altitude at which coffee grows impact its quality?
At high elevation, warm temperatures during the day and cooler temperatures at night slow down the coffee cherry's growth. More time on the tree means more time for the beans to develop a complex flavor profile. The result of high-grown coffee? Harder smaller beans are rich with complex flavor and the denser the beans the darker the roast it can take.

The anatomy of beans:-
##Insert Image here##
-> Outer skin
-> Pulp
-> Mucilage
-> Parchment
-> silver Skin
-> Green Bean

- Outer skin
The outer skin on the cherry is taut and thick. You can bite through it.

- Pulp
Mostly water and sugar, the cherry's pup ny weight accounts nearly 80% of the coffee.

- Mucilage 
This sweet, sticky honey-like substance coats the bean

- Parchment 
The thinn ehite parchment-like layer, similar to the papery skin on a peanut.

- Silver Skin
A layer that protects the bean.

- Green Bean
The actual coffee bean. Each coffee cherry has two bean inside, face to face. However, in about 5-10 percent of the cherries, only one bean develops in the center. This type of coffee bean is called "peaberry".

Three processing meathod of coffee
1. Wash processing
This meathod relies heavily on the use of water. This is especially true during fermentation when the sticky mucilage is dissolved in large tanls resulting in a cleaner bean and a more acidic flavout in the cup. In essence, fermentation increases acidity in the coffee, which is why latin American coffee (much of it washed processed) is often noted for it's pronounced acidity.

1.1 Receiving 
Coffeee cherries are transferred to a wet mill where they are measured and placed into a receiving tank.

1.2 De-pulping 
The cherries are sent down washing channel into de-pulpers, which physically remove the fruit from the bean through friction. Beans awaits fermentation, and the pulp are gathered to be used as compost.

1.3 Fermentation
Once the fruit is removed, beans are sent to fermentation tanks for 18-36 hours. During initial stages of fermentation, enzymes break down mucilage so it can be removed. After fermentation, the beans go through a washing channel to remove any residual mucilage.

1.4 Drying
Coffee beans are dried on a large outdoor patios, on drying tables or in mechanical drum dryers. When driedd outside, beans are constantly raked and turned to ensure they dry evenly in the sun. This process can take 5-7 days.

1.5 Resting
Dried coffee beans are bagged and transferred to warehouse to rest fot two months while they continue to develop flavour.

1.6 Hulling
The rested coffee hulled, the final step that removes the parchment around the outside of the bean.

2. Semi-washed processing
The semi-washed meathod is often associated with the coffees of the Indonesia. Partial drying and no fermentation impart semi-washed coffees with herbal, earthly flavours and big body.
