STATEMENT OF PURPOSE FORM

8. Why did you decide to undertake further study?
: Because in a sector like Information Technology which I am pursuing, further education helps keep me competitive in an always changing work environment.

9. How did you research your study options in your home country?
: Through taking part in various educational fairs and expos and also via friends and
teachers.

10. What did you learn about your study options in your home country?
: While many colleges claim to provide the course, the quality of education comes nowhere close when compared to countries like Australia.

11. Why did you decide not to study in your home country?
: The education providers here in Nepal seem to dwell too long on the theory side and pay little focus on the practicality of the subject.

17. Other than Australia, what countries did you research before you decided to study in Australia?
Country: Norway
Country: Germany
Country: Canada
Country: UK

18. How did you research these countries?
: webinars and various online events.

19. What did you learn about these countries?
Norway: While education is cheap, living cost is super high plus it's hard to find a job.

Germany: Nearly all undergraduate programs are taught in German. Learning German is very hard.

Canada: Both university fees and living expenses are incredibly high for international students.

Uk: Different education system. High living cost.

20. How did you research Australia?
: Through friends, teachers, and people living abroad. Also from my agent and various consultancies here in Nepal.

21. What did you learn about Australia during your research?
: I learned that it is by far the most preferred choice for international students. The education is cheaper. Information Technology courses, in particular, are extremely prominent and are globally recognized.

22. Why did you choose Australia?
: Compared to other countries Australia has climatic conditions nearly identical to Nepal while also being one of the safest countries in the world. It has a multicultural dynamics that would be best for any international student providing the best education which is ranked higher than other countries.

23. Which providers did you apply to in Australia?
: VU Sydney               BIT                   Applying

24. How did you research ECA?
: Mainly online and also through my agent.

25. Why did you choose this provider?
: ECA is world-renowned for its highest quality standards of education while offering end-to-end services to the students. I would be very much pleased to join ECA and start my journey moving forward.

26. Which course will you be studying?
: Bachelor of Information Technology

27. Why did you choose this course?
: I have always wanted to become an IT specialist and this course help me in achieving just that while still leaving room open for a specialization in a particular area.

28. Which 3 subjects interest you the most?

Subject name	         What interests you about
	                                  this subject

Mobile application developer ->  Getting an in-depth understanding of how apps I everyday use a function.

Web designer -> understanding the how-tos behind established websites.

Data analyst -> Getting a firm understanding of the business operations.

30. Why did you choose this city?
: Availability of several universities and plenty of opportunities to work and socialize.

32. Where will you live while you are studying?
: Sharing housing

34. If you have a history of visa rejections or non-compliance, please provide information to support why this will not be an issue moving forward
: No visa issues.

36. How does this course fit with your study/employment history?
: I have taken science in my A levels and always have been enthusiastic about technical fields. So this just feels like a natural step forward.

37. How will this course benefit your future?
: This degree prepares me with technical, analytical, managerial, and leadership skills which are required in any business. Also, the pay of IT professionals is quite good.

38. What will you do when you finish this course?
: I intend to work as an IT professional specializing in software development and web development side for various businesses in my hometown.

39. Please list employment opportunities when you graduate from this course:


40. Please explain your visa conditions as part of your enrolment.
: I am applying for a student visa.

41. Is there any other information you think is relevant to your application to study in Australia?
: My family is fully capable of sponsoring my education in Australia and after studying I intend to fill the professional gap in Nepal.
